Update gsheets.md (#5378)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/gsheets.md

---
title: "Google Sheets"
description: "Integrate with Google Sheets to query your metrics in a spreadsheet."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets"
---

> :::info Preview functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info Preview functionality
```

> :::info Preview functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Google Sheets integration with the dbt Semantic Layer is a [Preview](/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud) feature.

Reviewer: we should prob remove this callout too right @rpourzand ?

Author: Yep! good call

> Google Sheets integration with the dbt Semantic Layer is a [Preview](/docs/dbt-versions/product-lifecycles#dbt-cloud) feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Google Sheets (beta)"
title: "Google Sheets"
description: "Integrate with Google Sheets to query your metrics in a spreadsheet."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets (Preview)"
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets"
---

# Google Sheets <Lifecycle status='preview'/>

> :::info Preview functionality

Reviewer: removed this @rpourzand for consistency

Author: Thank you!

---

> title: "Google Sheets (beta)"

Reviewer 2: 🚀

description: "Integrate with Google Sheets to query your metrics in a spreadsheet."
tags: [Semantic Layer]
sidebar_label: "Google Sheets"
---

> # Google Sheets <Lifecycle status='preview'/>

Reviewer: removing the preview tag as well
![Screenshot 2024-04-29 at 17 06 39](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/f0658da1-74ce-4eed-a0ed-4a561a2b2a65)

```suggestion
```

| Group By      | Search and select dimensions or entities to group by. Dimensions are grouped by the entity of the semantic model they come from. You may choose dimensions on their own without metrics. |
| Time Range    | Quickly select time ranges to look at the data, which applies to the main time series for the metrics (metric time), or do more advanced filter using the "Custom" selection|
| Granularity   | Modify the granularity of the primary time dimension.      |
| Where         | Filter your data. This includes categorical and time filters. |
| Order By      | Return your data order.                              |
| Limit         | Set a limit for the rows of your output.               |

**Filtering data**

To use the filter functionality, choose the [dimension](docs/build/dimensions) you want to filter by and select the operation you want to filter on.
- For categorical dimensions, you can type a value into search or select from a populated list. For entities, you must type the value you are looking for as we do not load all of them given the large number of values.
- Continue adding additional filters as needed with AND and OR.

> For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on the primary time dimension with preset or custom options. For non-primary time dimensions, use the "Where" option to apply filters.

Reviewer: it sounds a little awkward so am going to wait for @rpourzand 

```suggestion
For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on the primary time dimension with preset or custom options. For non-primary time dimension series for metrics, use the "Where" option to apply filters.
```

Reviewer: should we say 'For non-metric time dimensions, use the "where"...'?

Author: Ok I tweaked a bit! let me know your thoughts

> For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on presets or custom options. The time range selector applies only to the primary time dimension (metric time). For all other  time dimensions that are not metric time, you can use the "Where" option to apply filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on presets or custom options. The time range selector applies only to the primary time dimension (`metric_time`). For all other time dimensions that aren't `metric_time`, you can use the "Where" option to apply filters.
```

| Group By      | Search and select dimensions or entities to group by. Dimensions are grouped by the entity of the semantic model they come from. You may choose dimensions on their own without metrics. |
| Time Range    | Quickly select time ranges to look at the data, which applies to the main time series for the metrics (metric time), or do more advanced filter using the "Custom" selection|
| Granularity   | Modify the granularity of the primary time dimension.      |
| Where         | Filter your data. This includes categorical and time filters. |
| Order By      | Return your data order.                              |
| Limit         | Set a limit for the rows of your output.               |

**Filtering data**

To use the filter functionality, choose the [dimension](docs/build/dimensions) you want to filter by and select the operation you want to filter on.
- For categorical dimensions, you can type a value into search or select from a populated list. For entities, you must type the value you are looking for as we do not load all of them given the large number of values.
- Continue adding additional filters as needed with AND and OR.

> For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on the primary time dimension with preset or custom options. For non-primary time dimensions, use the "Where" option to apply filters.

Reviewer 2: By `non-primary time dimensions`, do you mean non-metric time dimensions? The time range only works for metric time.

Reviewer: i changed it and i think the original was '...to filter on time dimensions that are not the primary time series for the metrics.' maybe i should add 'series for metrics' at the end

Author: Correct. Anything that's not metric_time!

| Menu items    | Description                                           |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
| Metrics       | Search and select metrics.                             |

> | Group By      | Search and select dimensions or entities to group by. Dimensions are grouped by the entity of the semantic model they come from. You may choose dimensions on their own without metrics |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Group By      | Search and select dimensions or entities to group by. Dimensions are grouped by the entity of the semantic model they come from. You may choose dimensions on their own without metrics. |
```

| Time Range    | Quickly select time ranges to look at the data, which applies to the main time series for the metrics (metric time), or do more advanced filter using the "Custom" selection|
| Granularity   | Modify the granularity of the primary time dimension.      |
| Where         | Filter your data. This includes categorical and time filters. |
| Order By      | Return your data order.                              |
| Limit         | Set a limit for the rows of your output.               |

**Filtering data**

To use the filter functionality, choose the [dimension](docs/build/dimensions) you want to filter by and select the operation you want to filter on.

> - For categorical dimensions,you can type a value in to search, or select from a populated list. For entities, you must type the value you are looking for as we do not load all of them given the large number of values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For categorical dimensions, you can type a value into search or select from a populated list. For entities, you must type the value you are looking for as we do not load all of them given the large number of values.
```

- Continue adding additional filters as needed with AND and OR.

> For time dimensions, you can filter on the primary time dimension using time tange selector which offers presets, or use "custom" for additional options. You can also use the "Where" option to filter on time dimensions that are not the primary time series for the metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For time dimensions, you can filter on the primary time dimension using the time range selector which offers presets, or use "custom" for additional options. You can also use the "Where" option to filter on time dimensions that are not the primary time series for the metrics.
```

> For time dimensions, you can filter on the primary time dimension using the time range selector which offers presets, or use "custom" for additional options. You can also use the "Where" option to filter on time dimensions that are not the primary time series for the metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For time dimensions, you can use the time range selector to filter on the primary time dimension with preset or custom options. For non-primary time dimensions, use the "Where" option to apply filters.
```
